some live pictures from the United
Nations where the Secretary General is
about to give a news conference his
first news conference if he takes
questions of course since the October
7th attacks let's listen it humanitarian
crisis it is a crisis of
humanity the intensifying conflict is
shaking the world rattling the region
and most tragically destroying so many
innocent
lives ground operations by the Israel
Defense Forces and Contin
bombardment are hitting civilians
hospitals refugee camps mosques church
and un facilities including
shelters No One Is
Safe at the same time Hamas and other
militants use civilians as human Shields
and continue to launch rockets
indiscriminately towards
Israel I reiterate my utter condemnation
of the abhorent acts of Terror perpet
ated by Hamas on 7 October and repeat my
call for the immediate unconditional and
safe release of hostages held in
Gaza nothing can justify the deliberate
torture killing injuring and kidnapping
of
civilians the protection of civilians
must be
Paramount I'm deeply concerned about
clear violations of international
humanitarian law that we are witnessing
let me be clear no party to an armed
conflict is above International
humanitarian
law ladies and gentlemen of the
press Gaza is becoming a graveyard for
children hundreds of girls and boys are
reportedly being killed or injured every
day more journalists have reportedly
been killed over a 4-week period than in
any conflict in at least three decades
more United Nations Aid workers have
been killed than in any comparable
period in the history of our
organization I salute all those who
continue their life-saving work despite
the overwhelming challenges and
risks and the unfolding catastrophe
makes the need for a humanitarian
ceasefire more urgent with every passing
hour the parties to the conflict and
indeed International Community face an
immediate and fundamental
responsibility to stop the inhuman
Collective suffering and dramatically
expand humanitarian Aid to
Gaza today the United Nations and our
partners are launching a1.2 billion US
doar humanitarian appeal to help 2.7
million people that's the entire
population of the Gaza Strip and half a
million Palestinians in the West Bank
including East
Jerusalem some life-saving Aid is
getting into Gaza from Egypt through the
Raa
Crossing but the trickle of assistance
does not me the ocean of need and let's
be clear the r Crossing alone does not
have the capacity to process eight
trucks at the scale
required just over 400 tracks have
crossed into Gaza over the past two
weeks compared with 500 a day before the
conflict and crucially this does not
include
fuel without fuel newborn babies in
incubators and patients on life support
will die water cannot be pumped or
purified raw sewage could soon start
gashing onto the streets further
spreading
disease trucks loaded with critical
relief will be
stranded The Way Forward is clear a
humanitarian C fire now all parties
respecting all their obligations and
international humanitarian law now this
means the unconditional release of the
hostages in Gaza now the protection of
civilians hospitals un facilities
shelters and schools now more food more
water more medicine and of course fool
entering Gaza safely swiftly and at the
needed now and fed access to deliver
supplies to all people in need in Gaza
now and the end of the use of civilians
as human Shields
now none of these appeals should be
conditional on the others and for all of
these we need more funding
now in addition I remain Gravely
concerned about Rising violence and an
expansion of the
conflict the occupied West Bank
including East Jerusalem is at a boiling
point let us also not forget the
importance of addressing the risks of
the conflict spilling over to the wider
region we are already witnessing a
spiral of escalation from Lebanon and
Syria to Iraq and Yemen that escalation
must
stop cool heads and diplomatic efforts
Prevail hateful rhetoric and provocative
actions must cease
I am deeply troubled by the rise in
anti-Semitism and anti-muslim
bigotry Jewish and Muslim communities in
many parts of the world are on high
alert fearing for their personal Safety
and
Security emotions are at a fever pitch
tensions are running High and the images
of suffering are heartbreaking and soul
crushing but we must find a way to all
hold on to our common
Humanity I think of civilians in Gaza
the vast majority women and children
terrified by the Relentless
bombardment I joined the UN family in
mourning 89 of our unra colleagues who
have been killed in Gaza many of them
together with members of their
family they include teachers School
principles doctors Engineers guards
support staff and a young woman named
Mai Mai did not let her muscular
distrophy or her wheelchair conf find
her
dreams she was a top student became a
software developer and devoted her
skills to working on information
technology for
unra I am so deeply inspired by her
example and I think of all those
tortured and killed in Israel nearly
when months ago and the hostages
abducted from their homes their families
their friends while simply living their
lives 10 days ago I met with some of the
family members of those
hostages I heard their stories felt
their anguish and was deeply moved by
their
compassion I will never relent in
working for their immediate
release this is essential in itself and
Central to solving many other
challenges one mother movingly movingly
shared with me a desolation over her
abducted son
H she also spoke outside the security
Council and on the subject of
confronting hatred she said and I quote
when you only get outraged when one
side's babies are killed then your moral
compass is broken and your humanity is
broken end
quote even in her hotter despair she
stood before the world and reminded us
and I quote in a competition of pain
there is never a winner end
quote we must act now to find a way out
of this brutal awful agonizing dead end
of
Destruction to help end the pain and
suffering to help heal the broken and to
help pave the way to peace
to a two-state Solutions with Israelis
and Palestinians living in peace and
security thank you you very much
[Music]
sir all right the United Nations
Secretary General speaking in New York
to reporters there we were hoping that
he would take questions from the
reporters there but he hasn't it's his
uh spokesman who will be uh doing that
uh a little later I think Stefan dejar
at the podium
Antonio guz speaking to reporters for
the first time since the October the 7th
attack uh by Hamas on Israel and uh his
uh statement there coming on the day
that the death toll of Palestinians
killed in the Israeli attacks on Gaza
reached the green Milestone of
10,000 a statement also coming as
Israel's bombing campaign as you can see
on those live pictures from Gaza are
continuing intense bombing of Gaza City
in the last few minutes as the United
Nation Secretary General was making that
statement it was a pretty strong
statement uh the language used by
Antonio guz very strong he said Gaza is
becoming a graveyard for Palestinian
children hundreds of girls and boys
reportedly being killed or injured every
day he announced also that the United
Nations and its partners are launching a
$1.2 billion humanitarian appeal to help
the 2.7 million people in Gaza and uh
also half a million Palestinians in the
occupied West West Bank and occupied
East
Jerusalem uh a number of things that the
United Nations Secretary General talked
about there which were going to discuss
now with our diplomatic editor James
spay who's here on the set with us uh as
I said James a pretty strong statement
from the United Nations Secretary
General coming on what is an important
day today with this 10 10,000 death toll
uh uh in in Gaza of Palestinians killed
in Israeli air strikes what did you make
of what he had to say and what stood out
the most for you crisis of humanity was
one of his first words and he was very
very clear who was responsible saying
that it was the ground operations of the
Israeli Defense Force and the continued
bombardment but are hitting civilians
hospitals refugee camps mosks churches
and um and un facilities um it is
interesting though that this speech was
very balanced there was quite a lot
about what happened on October the 7th
remember the criticism he got when he
spoke the security ccil from the
Israelis right from the Israeli the
Israeli Ambassador calling for his
resignation that's because he said what
happened on October the 7th didn't
happen in a vacuum and there was a
context to it got a great deal of
criticism and interesting that there was
nothing really about the historical
context uh in this speech and he has to
be very measured um and has to remember
that he has an Israeli audience as well
because he is the man uh in his job as
the as the Secretary General of the
United Nations who might have to try and
negotiated some sort of peace that puts
him in a difficult position when you
also hear him saying uh that he mn's 88
un colleagues who've been killed in Gaza
because he's their employer he has a
duty of care if you were the employer of
88 people who are killed you'd want to
start raging at the person responsible
for killing them which of course is
Israel right a strong but measured
speech as you said he also talked about
Aid which is crucial right now for Gaza
he said some life- saving Aid is getting
into Gaza from Egypt through the Rafa
Crossing it's not enough he said he says
the Rafa Crossing alone does not have
the capacity to process a trucks at the
scale required so there is uh there is
the um another Crossing of course that
he's alluding to here are we likely to
see any progress on more Aid getting
into Gaza not just s Rafa but through
the uh other Crossing yeah it's it's a
hint but it's not one I've heard him
make publicly before that Israel should
open up Kum Shalom I'm sure privately
they've been saying that to the Israelis
all the way through this Kim shuram is a
much bigger um uh deal uh it is where
most of the trucks used to go in from
Israel directly into Gaza and it's been
completely closed since October the 7th
saying that Rafer alone doesn't have the
capacity there is no other Crossing from
Egypt so you'd have to have a Crossing
from Israel it seems that he's talking
about that publicly the other thing he's
talking about on Aid publicly is about
fuel of course that's the one thing even
though some trucks have gone in nowhere
near enough according to the Secretary
General just over 400 uh trucks um no no
fuel has gone in and he made it clear
that that means newborn babies and
people on life support care um people on
dialysis they going to die briefly James
uh there's a security council meeting
later a closed door security council
meeting what can we expect from that
well I think there'll be more uh
discussion of the current situation and
and and and more disagreement and impass
in the security Council I think they'll
be hoping that a closed door meeting the
security Council will also perhaps give
some impetus to negotiations because
remember the security Council hasn't
been able to pass a res ution in over a
month uh on this particular issue the
argument at the moment is if you have a
resolution does it have the word seesar
in it or does it have the word
humanitarian Paws you've got currently
both the US and Russia prepare to use
their veto over those words I'll pause
you there James B is our diplomatic
editor thank you very much